### "A Computer Vision System for apple fruit sizing by means of low-cost depth camera and neural network application"
**Authors:** Bortolotti G.,  Piani M., Gullino M., Mengoli D., Franceschini C., Corelli L., Manfrini L.\
*IN PRESS*
> *Fruit size is crucial for growers as it influences consumer willingness to buy and the price of the fruit. Fruit size and growth along the seasons are two parameters that can lead to more precise orchard management favoring production sustainability. In this study, a Python-based computer vision system (CVS) for sizing apples directly on the tree was developed to ease fruit sizing tasks. The system is made of a consumer-grade depth camera and was tested at two distances among 17 timings throughout the season, in a Fuji apple orchard. The CVS exploited a specifically trained YOLOv5 detection algorithm, a circle detection algorithm, and a trigonometric approach based on depth information to size the fruits. Comparisons with standard-trained YOLOv5 models and with spherical objects were carried out. The algorithm showed good fruit detection and circle detection performance, with a sizing rate of 92%. Good correlations (r >0.8) between estimated and actual fruit size were found. The sizing performance showed an overall mean error (mE) and RMSE of +5.7mm (9%) and 10mm (15%). The best results of mE were always found at 1.0 m, compared to 1.5m. Key factors for the presented methodology were: the fruit detectors customization; the HoughCircle parameters adaptability to object size, camera distance, and color; and the issue of field natural illumination. The study also highlighted the uncertainty of human operators in the reference data collection (5–6%) and the effect of random subsampling on the statistical analysis of fruit size estimation. Despite the high error values, the CVS shows potential for fruit sizing at the orchard scale. Future research will focus on improving and testing the CVS on a large scale, as well as investigating other image analysis methods and the ability to estimate fruit growth.*


### "A Computer Vision Approach for Estimating Fruit Growth Rate in Orchards"
**Authors:** Manfrini L., Gullino M., Piani M., Franceschini C., Mengoli D., Omodei N., Rossi S., Bortolotti G.\
*IN PRESS* in Acta Horticulturae as conference proceedings\
**December 2023** - *ISHS Precision Management of Orchards and Vineyards*
  > *Fruit development information throughout the growing season is essential for effective orchard management. Repeated measurements of fruit size enable the tracking of its absolute growth rate (AGR), a key physiological parameter for yield prediction and assessment of stressing conditions. Caliper based AGR measurements can be labor-intensive while existing sensor-based solutions are limited by cost and low representativeness at orchard level. In this study, a novel computer vision system (CVS) that employs a depth camera and artificial intelligence algorithm to estimate fruit AGR directly in the field is presented. Images of these fruits were collected at distances of 1.0m and 1.5m from the tree row, capturing multiple time points during the season. The CVS computed the AGR for each detected fruit in the images. Preliminary results from the ongoing analysis indicate a fruit detection and sizing rate always over 92% and 97% respectively. Current results are not in line with expected performance for field application, but further improvements in the system algorithm are currently ongoing. It is worth to note that results were obtained from the analysis of only 30% of the whole dataset, suggesting that even better results could be reached during further analysis stage. The presented approach wants to harness the large sample size analyzable (up to the entire fruit population), to mitigate errors associated with individual measurements and obtain robust fruit size and AGR estimations, at the orchard level.* 


### "67. Apple fruit sizing through low-cost depth camera and neural network application"
**Authors:** Bortolotti G.,  Gullino M., Piani M., Mengoli D., Manfrini L.\
https://doi.org/10.3920/978-90-8686-947-3_67\
**July 2023** - *European Conference on Precision Agriculture*

  > *Fruit size information through the season is an important parameter allowing growers to better manage the orchard. In this study, a Python based computer vision algorithm for sizing apples directly on-the-tree was developed. The system was made of a consumer-grade depth camera and tested at two distances and different timings through the season, in a Fuji apple orchard. The system exploited a YOLOv5 detection algorithm and a trigonometric approach based on depth information to size the fruits. Results showed potential field application even if a further system improvement to reduce the sizing error (RMSE <10 mm) need to be achieved.*

